what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose you don't
know who I am my name is Nasir I'm a
second year medical student at King's
College London I try and make these
YouTube videos to help you guys out
through the application process for
medical school today I'm going to be
reviewing mattifies B Mac course their
question Bank their past papers and
their tutorials I'm going to show you
guys all the different features that it
has how it works so that you guys can
decide if you think it's viable for you
of course I'm going to be throwing in my
little tips and tricks along the way now
I'm also going to be doing in-depth
videos on the different sections of the
Bema similarly it's how I did for the UK
count exam if you guys are excited about
that make sure you leave a thumbs up on
this video and subscribe to the channel
so that you know when those videos are
released
first things first thank you to mattify
for sponsoring this video if you guys
want to check them out I'll leave a link
in the description and you can go to
their website and see what they have to
offer for you
now without further ado let's go to my
computer and jump straight in to mattify
it's be my online course alright guys so
once you've signed up to the be my
course this is the page that you're
greeted with we have tutorials here on
the Left practice questions in the
middle and then past papers on the right
now this is the order that I actually
recommend doing the materials in first
you want to learn the theory through all
the tutorials all the different
information that's relevant behind each
section then you want to practice those
questions so you make sure you know
exactly what it is that you're doing
what the questions look like on the
actual exam and then you want to do time
to practice with past papers so you can
practice your timing throughout the
whole exam so let's start off with the
tutorial section so as you guys can see
the tutorials are split into section 1
section 2 and section 3 which is pretty
intuitive under each section heading
there is a ton of information I'm gonna
start with section 1 anything in grey
something that I've already clicked on
anything in blue is something that I
haven't clicked on before so it helps
you keep track of what it is that you've
read so far so section 1 of the Bema is
all about critical thinking it's kind of
similar to the UK cat's verbal reasoning
section but in my opinion this one is a
lot harder instead of just choosing
true/false or can't tell if the answers
you have many different types of
questions unmet if I hear breaks down
all the different types of questions
under the critical thinking heading and
then again under the problem-solving
heading now that's extremely useful
because when you're doing these
questions in the exam you want to be
able to quickly identify what the
question type is and what your strategy
is for tackling that specific type of
question for example the conclusion
style questions we click on that link
it'll give us detailed information
on that type of question specifically
how to tackle it some examples and
things like that as you guys can see
here there's just a wealth of
information for section one and you guys
can read it on your own it'll give you a
really good idea of the theory behind
the types of questions in that section
now let's move on to section 2 section 2
is all about the sciences now you might
be thinking great I love science I want
to study medicine this is exactly what I
want to do and yeah you'd probably be
right I really enjoy biology and
chemistry in high school and I thought
they were awesome sciences but then you
also have things like physics you have
maths and honestly those are the topics
that I really struggled with when I was
in high school and that's where
something like this would have been very
useful for me so I hadn't done any
physics since my IGCSE years I found a
real struggle to self teach and relearn
all the physics from random books that I
ordered online and things like that
so what mattified does really well here
is for example under the physics section
there's of course all these different
subheadings but if you click on any
individual one of them you'll be greeted
with even more information if we take a
look at forces and acceleration for
example you can see that there's all the
relevant information the relevant
equations as well and then followed by
diagrams and examples to help you really
understand the theory that's going on
here so this is very very useful because
it only gives you the relevant
information for that topic if I was to
go to a physics a level or physics IV
textbook and start reading the chapter
on acceleration I would probably end up
reading way too many pages that I need
to actually answer questions on the exam
for every single one of the sciences
there is a wealth of information here
for example if we click on organ systems
under biology you'll find all the
different subheadings tissues and organs
breathing respiration circulatory system
and kidneys everything that's relevant
for what you are studying for this exam
I would definitely recommend having a
very thorough read of all of this theory
before you start tackling the questions
just to make sure you know what it is
that you're getting into this kind of
reference becomes very important when
you're doing practice questions let's
say you're doing chemistry practice
questions and you come across a question
on electrolysis I haven't studied it
since year 13 which was 2013 for me so
that's over five years ago I came back
to this tutorial section and I searched
for analysis and electrolysis I clicked
on electrolysis and then I clicked on
the more specific section that I wanted
to learn about and I read all the
information there and it made
understanding the questions so much
easier so that's another time that this
wreck
is really useful you can see a question
not know what you're doing or not
understand the theory go back to the
relevant topic and the tutorials learn
it and then tackle the question again
all right now moving on to section 3
section 3 is probably gonna be the most
daunting for a lot of you guys but
honestly I don't think it's that bad you
have 30 minutes to write one essay and
if you go through enough essay plans and
you take a look at enough pass papers
you'll really start to recognize what
the types of questions that commonly
come up are and you'll be able to
quickly plan an essay no problem we have
the introduction to section 3 essay
question types how's it marked content
English timing strategy how to choose
your essay how to plan your essay
literally everything you would need to
start working on the essays and then in
addition to that something that's really
important is that they provide tons of
past paper essay plans for example if we
click down here you can see that they
have past paper essays from 2016 all the
way to when some of you were born
it just didn't not that long ago but
anyway you get the point there are a ton
of past papers here and you can click on
any one of them to get more information
about that question and a detailed essay
plan breakdown alright I think that
wraps it up for the tutorials parts of
the Bema online course let's head back
to the dashboard so we can take a look
at the practice questions now practice
questions some would argue is the most
important part of your preparation it's
where you actually get to see what the
question difficulty is like and how well
your theory and knowledge matches up to
actually doing the questions of course
if you guys know me at all or if you
watched any of my videos I recommend
doing so so so much practice do every
single question you can get your hands
on expose yourself to as many questions
as possible because once you see a lot
of questions you'll quickly start to
recognize patterns that consistently
come up now I've had a quick double into
the questions you can see that I've done
a little bit of questions for each
section not too many just yet but I'm
gonna be doing a lot more for my
in-depth email videos where I go through
every single section and answer
questions live on camera if you guys
want to see those definitely stay tuned
and subscribe to the channel so let's
say we want to solve biology questions
we can select biology here and click
start practice I'm gonna read the first
question which of the components of DNA
listed below are found on the inside of
a DNA double helix pentose sugar
phosphate purine bases pyrimidine bases
so we know that it's purine and
pyrimidine bases so I'm gonna select
three on four only you click mark and
explain it tells you whether you got the
answer right or wrong and
provides an explanation you're not just
solving questions mindlessly you're
solving questions realizing why it is
that you've got it right or why it is
that you've got it wrong and that's
extremely key when it comes to revision
don't forget to focus on why you've got
questions wrong that's probably more
important than knowing why you've got
different ones right then you click next
question you go and solve the next
question you might can explain so on and
so forth you can see your question
attempts if you want you can also skip a
question if you haven't covered that
relevant material yet and it'll show it
to you later you can also filter down
the questions that it shows you based on
new questions that you haven't seen
before all questions both ones you have
and haven't seen and then of course only
incorrect questions those that are your
weak points and those you want to focus
on that is really really important once
you're done practicing biology you can
hit the X over here go back to the total
topics and for example click on
problem-solving and start solving
questions there
there are 1372 questions that is a lot
of questions and you really want to do
them all trust me if you guys are
preparing for the Bema you want to do
all the questions that you possibly can
you can also check your performance if
you want that you can see how you're
scoring in every section you can track
each section how you're performing so
you know where you're doing well and you
can sort of take a little bit of a step
back there and where you're performing
poorly so you make sure to focus more of
your time and energy on that specific
section once you've practiced all the
questions to your heart's content and
you feel comfortable with the different
theory and application of it to those
questions you can start doing past
papers past papers are an integral part
of my revision strategy turn into a part
of how I study I must must must do past
papers because it tells me what the
previous questions look like the
difficulty level and one things I should
be focusing on don't skip out the past
paper part always do past papers before
your exam trust me you can see that
there are past papers for section 1 and
section 2 the past papers for section 3
were in the tutorial section if you
remember and for each one of these
sections you have 14 pass papers to go
through that is so much material I so
much good practice I would start by
doing the most recent ones first so
start maybe leave the 2014 to 2016 for
like the last couple of days of your
revision but start from 2013 and work
your way down 2003 when you're doing
your vision about a month or so before
the actual exam once you start getting
closer to the exam you want to do the
most recent past papers
you have the most representative view of
what the questions will be like that are
gonna come up right now
all right guys honestly I think that's
it we've gone through all the different
sections now I want to conclude by
saying that you just need to do so many
questions for these exams there's
supplies to both the UK cap and the Bema
you want to do as many questions as you
possibly can and having a question bank
like mattify is something that can
really help you do that you also of
course have the tutorials where it shows
you the relevant information and then
you have past papers that you can
practice your theory your questions and
your timing strategy all in one place in
my opinion this is a very organized a
very clean simple and efficient way to
do your vision for the Bema if you guys
want to check mattify out i'll leave
links in the description and you guys
can check them out for yourself but for
now I think that wraps up this review of
the vemma online course I hope I've been
able to show you guys all the different
sections how it works and what it is
that you get when you sign up to this
service and now you guys can go on and
make your own informed decision about
whether you think this is valuable for
you I hope that's helped guys I wish you
the best of luck and your BMI revision
make sure you keep an eye out for my
upcoming be my videos with in-depth
analysis of every single section you
know how it works
general tips answering live questions on
camera and all the rest of it if you
guys have enjoyed this video definitely
leave it thumbs up subscribe to my
channel and I'll see you guys in the
next one peace